---
layout: post # needs to be post
title: Predicting West Nile Outbreaks in Chicago
featured-img: lance-anderson-636845
categories: [Project, Machine Learning]
---

The city of Chicago is facing a crucial problem to reduce total cases of West Nile Virus as well as vector mosquitoes.  Controlling the mosquito population is the first hurdle to preventing West Nile Virus and mosquito borne diseases. Mosquito control is challenging due to constantly moving targets, while maximizing values of wisely spent public funds.

Our objective was to predict when are where the worst outbreak could occur and what indicators could be used to gauge when action needed to be taken. If done successfully, a comprehensive 

### Dataset

Our data contained trap collection information for 2007, 2009, 2011, and 2013. We focused on exploring features along certain areas.

#### Dependency on seasonal variation

Seasonal flucuations in mosquito population was very apparent within the dataset as we observed patterns across each year. This took us  into two possibilities in either building a weight system to adjust for seasonal changes or to rely on calendar indicators such as month and day of the year. In the end, using the calendar method provided enough 

#### Species type

Species type for each 

|Species|Rate of WNV|
|:---:|:---:|
|CULEX ERRATICUS |	0.000000|
|CULEX PIPIENS |	0.088922|
|CULEX PIPIENS/RESTUANS |	0.055135|
|CULEX RESTUANS |	0.017883|
|CULEX SALINARIUS |	0.000000|
|CULEX TARSALIS |	0.000000|
|CULEX TERRITANS |	0.000000|

#### Location of Trap



#### Rolling Weather data

Using the available weather data, it was imparitive to use the most useful set of weather data and it does not necessarly line up on a day to day basis. Mosquito population can be influenced by the running average 

#### Spatial Analysis of traps proxmity to L-Train stop

After going through the inital set of data available to us
There was too much granularity to dummy each trap, but proximity is still relevant. Lat/Long of traps provides some necessary detail but does not account for the true shape of Chicago. We will try to group traps by their proximity to L-train stops.

![Train map]


### Models

_Logistic Regression:_

- Logisitic Regression is allowing feature addition to be reflected well in the data. Probabilities are lower range than other model types by produce better roc auc scores.

### Analyze Model


### Conclusion
